---
ID: 78604
post_title: 'National coronavirus updates: Fauci weighs pros, cons of reopening schools this fall amid COVID-19'
author: 'IGV- News Desk Team'
post_excerpt: 'The latest: There have been more than 1.8 million coronavirus cases in the United States, according to the Johns Hopkins University tally.The U.S. death toll has surpassed 107,000 people, according to Hopkins.The Trump administration has selected five companies as the most likely to produce a COVID-19 vaccine.The Senate on Wednesday passed a Paycheck Protection Program&hellip;'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://indiagoneviral.com/news/2020/06/04/national-coronavirus-updates-fauci-weighs-pros-cons-of-reopening-schools-this-fall-amid-covid-19-2/78604/india-gone-viral/
published: true
post_date: 2020-06-04 19:42:17
---
<p>
					The latest: There have been more than 1.8 million coronavirus cases in the United States, according to the Johns Hopkins University tally.The U.S. death toll has surpassed 107,000 people, according to Hopkins.The Trump administration has selected five companies as the most likely to produce a COVID-19 vaccine.The Senate on Wednesday passed a Paycheck Protection Program reform bill that gives more flexibility for business owners to use loan money. The bill, which passed the House last week,  is now pending President Donald Trump’s signature.  An autopsy by the Hennepin County Medical Examiner’s Office shows George Floyd had coronavirus.A malaria drug President Donald Trump took to try to prevent COVID-19 proved ineffective for that in the first large, high-quality study to test it in health workers and others closely exposed to people with the disease. Results published Wednesday by the New England Journal of Medicine show that hydroxychloroquine was no better than placebo pills at preventing illness from the coronavirus. The drug did not seem to cause serious harm, though — about 40% on it had side effects, mostly mild stomach problems.“We were disappointed. We would have liked for this to work,” said the study leader, Dr. David Boulware, an infectious disease specialist at the University of Minnesota. “But our objective was to answer the question and to conduct a high-quality study,” because the evidence on the drug so far has been inconclusive, he said.Hydroxychloroquine and a similar drug, chloroquine, have been the subject of much debate since Trump started promoting them in March. Hydroxychloroquine has long been used for malaria, lupus and rheumatoid arthritis, but no large studies have shown it or chloroquine to be safe or effective for much sicker patients with coronavirus, and some studies have suggested the drugs may do harm. Trump took a two-week course of hydroxychloroquine, along with zinc and Vitamin D, after two staffers tested positive for COVID-19, and had no ill effects, according to results of his latest physical released by his doctor Wednesday. Federal regulators have warned against their use except in hospitals and formal studies because of the risk of side effects, especially heart rhythm problems.Boulware’s study involved 821 people in the United States and Canada living with someone diagnosed with COVID-19 or at high risk of getting it because of their job — doctors, nurses, ambulance workers who had significant exposure to a sick patient while not wearing full protective gear.They were randomly assigned to get either placebo pills or hydroxychloroquine for five days, starting within four days of their exposure. Neither they nor their doctors knew who who was getting what.After 14 days in the study, 12% on the drug developed COVID-19 symptoms versus 14% in the placebo group, but the difference is so small it could have occurred by chance, Boulware said.“There’s basically no effect. It does not prevent infection,” he said of the drug. Even if it were to give some slim advantage, “we’d want a much larger effect” to justify its use and risk of side effects for preventing illness, he said.Results were no different among a subgroup of participants who were taking zinc or vitamin C, which some people believe might help make hydroxychloroquine more effective.“This fits with everything else we’ve seen so far, which suggests that it’s not beneficial," said Dr. Peter Bach, director of a health policy center at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York. This study was in younger relatively healthy people, but the results “would make me very discouraged about trying to use this in older people” who are most vulnerable to serious illness from the coronavirus, Bach said. “If it does work, it doesn’t work very well.”Dr. Dan Culver, a lung specialist at the Cleveland Clinic, said there’s still a chance that giving the drug sooner than four days after someone’s exposure to the virus may help prevent illness.But the study “takes ‘home run’ off the table” as far as hopes for the drug, he said. ER visits for non-Covid cases dropped 42% during the pandemic, CDC saysThe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warns that some people may be putting off emergency care for serious health conditions during the coronavirus pandemic — and fewer visits for critical conditions could result in complications or even death.During the pandemic, the total number of visits to hospital emergency departments across the United States for conditions other than COVID-19 was 42% lower than during this same time last year, according to a new CDC report.The research, published in the CDC's Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report on Wednesday, found that emergency department visits fell from about 2.1 million visits per week between March 31 and April 27 last year to 1.2 million between March 29 and April 25 this year.The "steepest decreases" were among children 14 and younger, women and girls, and people living in the northeast region of the country, CDC researchers noted. For instance, in 2019, 12% of all emergency department visits were in children 10 and younger, compared with 6% during the same time period this year.Yet overall, "the proportion of infectious disease-related visits was four times higher during the early pandemic period," according to the report.Fauci weighs pros, cons of reopening schools this fallThe idea of keeping schools closed in the fall because of safety concerns for children might be "a bit of a reach," said Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.In a phone interview with CNN Wednesday, Fauci noted that children tend to have milder symptoms or even no symptoms when they are infected with COVID-19.What's not yet clear is whether children get infected as frequently as adults, and whether they often pass the infection on to others. Ultimately, he said, the decision to reopen schools needs to be predicated on the level of infection in each community.In the past academic school year, 48 states recommended schools close through the rest of the year as coronavirus began its rapid spread.  "When you talk about children going back to school and their safety, it really depends on the level of viral activity, and the particular area that you're talking about," Fauci said. "What happens all too often, understandably, but sometimes misleadingly, is that we talk about the country as a whole in a unidimensional way."Fauci seemed to think that keeping schools closed in general is not necessary."Children can get infected, so, yes, so you've got to be careful," Fauci said. "You got to be careful for them and you got to be careful that they may not spread it. Now, to make an extrapolation that you shouldn't open schools, I think is a bit of a reach."Fauci said it's not premature to start the conversation about reopening schools now. "I think we need to discuss the pros and the cons of bringing kids back to school in September," he said.Stressing the importance of not generalizing, Fauci laid out the spectrum of scenarios for what a return to school in the fall could look like."In some situations, there will be no problem for children to go back to school," he said. "In others, you may need to do some modifications. You know, modifications could be breaking up the class so you don't have a crowded classroom, maybe half in the morning, half in the afternoon, having children doing alternate schedules. There's a whole bunch of things that one can do."Talking about classroom layouts specifically, Fauci underscored the need to "be creative" and create plans based on the degree of infection in the community.He suggested that one option is to space out children at every other desk, or every third desk in order to maintain proper social distancing.When we go back to eating out, more of us will pay with our phones Major restaurant chains are trying to make it easier for customers to get their food without touching anything but their own phones.It's a trend that started before the pandemic hit and has only accelerated as consumers and restaurants adjust to a new normal, where contact with others is discouraged. Now, restaurants are betting people will want to peruse digital menus instead of physical ones and opt for mobile ordering rather than paying at the register with cash or credit card."The handling of cash creates consumer concerns about the spread of viruses," Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson wrote in an open letter in early May describing the company's plan to reopen. He noted that Starbucks is adding new features to its app to include voice ordering through Siri and more opportunities for rewards. The app already shows which restaurants have mobile order and pickup so that customers can plan their visits and manage expectations before they get to the store.Johnson predicted that "the mobile app will become the dominant form of payment." The Associated Press and CNN contributed to this report.W2lmcmFtZSBzcmM9Imh0dHBzOi8vZDJjbXZicTdzeHgzM2ouY2xvdWRmcm9udC5uZXQvZW1haWwvcHJvZF9jb3JvbmF2aXJ1c19pZnJhbWVfYXJ0aWNsZS5odG1sIiBoZWlnaHQ9IjQxNCIgc3R5bGU9IndpZHRoOjEwMCU7Ym9yZGVyOm5vbmU7b3ZlcmZsb3c6aGlkZGVuIiBzY3JvbGxpbmc9Im5vIiBmcmFtZWJvcmRlcj0iMCIgYWxsb3dUcmFuc3BhcmVuY3k9InRydWUiXVsvaWZyYW1lXQ==
				</p><div>
																<p>The latest: </p><ul><li>There have been more than 1.8 million coronavirus cases in the United States, according to the <a href="https://coronavirus.jhu.edu/map.html" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Johns Hopkins University tally</a>.</li><li>The U.S. death toll has surpassed 107,000 people, according to Hopkins.</li><li>The Trump administration has selected five companies as the most likely to produce a COVID-19 vaccine.</li><li>The Senate on Wednesday passed a Paycheck Protection Program reform bill that gives more flexibility for business owners to use loan money. The bill, which passed the House last week,  is now pending President Donald Trump’s signature.  </li><li>An autopsy by the Hennepin County Medical Examiner’s Office shows <a href="https://www.wjcl.com/article/autopsy-shows-george-floyd-had-coronavirus/32761418" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">George Floyd had coronavirus</a>.</li></ul>
<hr></hr><p>A malaria drug President Donald Trump took to try to prevent COVID-19 proved ineffective for that in the first large, high-quality study to test it in health workers and others closely exposed to people with the disease. </p><p>Results published Wednesday by the New England Journal of Medicine show that hydroxychloroquine was no better than placebo pills at preventing illness from the coronavirus. The drug did not seem to cause serious harm, though — about 40% on it had side effects, mostly mild stomach problems.</p><p>“We were disappointed. We would have liked for this to work,” said the study leader, Dr. David Boulware, an infectious disease specialist at the University of Minnesota. “But our objective was to answer the question and to conduct a high-quality study,” because the evidence on the drug so far has been inconclusive, he said.</p><p>Hydroxychloroquine and a similar drug, chloroquine, have been the subject of much debate since Trump started promoting them in March. Hydroxychloroquine has long been used for malaria, lupus and rheumatoid arthritis, but no large studies have shown it or chloroquine to be safe or effective for much sicker patients with coronavirus, and some studies have suggested the drugs may do harm. </p><p>Trump took a two-week course of hydroxychloroquine, along with zinc and Vitamin D, after two staffers tested positive for COVID-19, and had no ill effects, according to results of his latest physical released by his doctor Wednesday. </p><p>Federal regulators have warned against their use except in hospitals and formal studies because of the risk of side effects, especially heart rhythm problems.</p>

<p>Boulware’s study involved 821 people in the United States and Canada living with someone diagnosed with COVID-19 or at high risk of getting it because of their job — doctors, nurses, ambulance workers who had significant exposure to a sick patient while not wearing full protective gear.</p><p>They were randomly assigned to get either placebo pills or hydroxychloroquine for five days, starting within four days of their exposure. Neither they nor their doctors knew who who was getting what.</p><p>After 14 days in the study, 12% on the drug developed COVID-19 symptoms versus 14% in the placebo group, but the difference is so small it could have occurred by chance, Boulware said.</p><p>“There’s basically no effect. It does not prevent infection,” he said of the drug. Even if it were to give some slim advantage, “we’d want a much larger effect” to justify its use and risk of side effects for preventing illness, he said.</p><p>Results were no different among a subgroup of participants who were taking zinc or vitamin C, which some people believe might help make hydroxychloroquine more effective.</p><p>“This fits with everything else we’ve seen so far, which suggests that it’s not beneficial," said Dr. Peter Bach, director of a health policy center at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York. </p><p>This study was in younger relatively healthy people, but the results “would make me very discouraged about trying to use this in older people” who are most vulnerable to serious illness from the coronavirus, Bach said. “If it does work, it doesn’t work very well.”</p><p>Dr. Dan Culver, a lung specialist at the Cleveland Clinic, said there’s still a chance that giving the drug sooner than four days after someone’s exposure to the virus may help prevent illness.</p><p>But the study “takes ‘home run’ off the table” as far as hopes for the drug, he said. </p>
<h3>ER visits for non-Covid cases dropped 42% during the pandemic, CDC says</h3><p>The <a href="https://twitter.com/CDCgov/status/1268227302778982405" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warns</a> that some people may be putting off emergency care for serious health conditions during the coronavirus pandemic — and fewer visits for critical conditions could result in complications or even death.</p><p>During the pandemic, the total number of visits to hospital emergency departments across the United States for conditions other than COVID-19 was 42% lower than during this same time last year, according to a new CDC report.</p><p>The research, published in the <a href="https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/mm6923e1.htm?s_cid=mm6923e1_w" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">CDC's Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report</a> on Wednesday, found that emergency department visits fell from about 2.1 million visits per week between March 31 and April 27 last year to 1.2 million between March 29 and April 25 this year.</p>

<p>The "steepest decreases" were among children 14 and younger, women and girls, and people living in the northeast region of the country, CDC researchers noted. For instance, in 2019, 12% of all emergency department visits were in children 10 and younger, compared with 6% during the same time period this year.</p><p>Yet overall, "the proportion of infectious disease-related visits was four times higher during the early pandemic period," according to the report.</p><h3>Fauci weighs pros, cons of reopening schools this fall</h3><p>The idea of keeping schools closed in the fall because of safety concerns for children might be "a bit of a reach," said Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.</p><p>In a phone interview with CNN Wednesday, Fauci noted that children tend to have milder symptoms or even no symptoms when they are infected with COVID-19.</p><p>What's not yet clear is whether children get infected as frequently as adults, and whether they often pass the infection on to others. Ultimately, he said, the decision to reopen schools needs to be predicated on the level of infection in each community.</p>

<p>In the past academic school year, 48 states recommended schools close through the rest of the year as coronavirus began its rapid spread.  </p><p>"When you talk about children going back to school and their safety, it really depends on the level of viral activity, and the particular area that you're talking about," Fauci said. "What happens all too often, understandably, but sometimes misleadingly, is that we talk about the country as a whole in a unidimensional way."</p><p>Fauci seemed to think that keeping schools closed in general is not necessary.</p><p>"Children can get infected, so, yes, so you've got to be careful," Fauci said. "You got to be careful for them and you got to be careful that they may not spread it. Now, to make an extrapolation that you shouldn't open schools, I think is a bit of a reach."</p><p>Fauci said it's not premature to start the conversation about reopening schools now. "I think we need to discuss the pros and the cons of bringing kids back to school in September," he said.</p><p>Stressing the importance of not generalizing, Fauci laid out the spectrum of scenarios for what a return to school in the fall could look like.</p><p>"In some situations, there will be no problem for children to go back to school," he said. "In others, you may need to do some modifications. You know, modifications could be breaking up the class so you don't have a crowded classroom, maybe half in the morning, half in the afternoon, having children doing alternate schedules. There's a whole bunch of things that one can do."</p><p>Talking about classroom layouts specifically, Fauci underscored the need to "be creative" and create plans based on the degree of infection in the community.</p><p>He suggested that one option is to space out children at every other desk, or every third desk in order to maintain proper social distancing.</p><h3>When we go back to eating out, more of us will pay with our phones </h3><p>Major restaurant chains are trying to make it easier for customers to get their food without touching anything but their own phones.</p><p>It's a trend that started before the pandemic hit and has only accelerated as consumers and restaurants adjust to a new normal, where contact with others is discouraged. Now, restaurants are betting people will want to peruse digital menus instead of physical ones and opt for mobile ordering rather than paying at the register with cash or credit card.</p>
<p>"The handling of cash creates consumer concerns about the spread of viruses," Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson <a href="https://stories.starbucks.com/stories/2020/starbucks-ceo-the-third-place-needed-now-more-than-ever-before/" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">wrote in an open letter</a> in early May describing the company's plan to reopen. He noted that Starbucks is adding new features to its app to include voice ordering through Siri and more opportunities for rewards. The app already shows which restaurants have mobile order and pickup so that customers can plan their visits and manage expectations before they get to the store.</p><p>Johnson predicted that "the mobile app will become the dominant form of payment." </p><p><em>The Associated Press and CNN contributed to this report.</em></p>

					
					
									</div><br/><a href="https://www.wisn.com/article/national-coronavirus-updates-june-4/32758919" class="button purchase" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Read More</a>