---
ID: 78765
post_title: >
  Summerfest canceled for 2020 due to
  COVID-19
author: valariedanis4
post_excerpt: 'Summerfest has been canceled for 2020. This comes as the festival was previously rescheduled to September.In a statement sent to 12 News, President &amp; CEO Don Smiley said: "After careful, diligent, and thoughtful consideration and out of an abundance of caution for the health and safety of our community - including artists, fans, vendors, participants&hellip;'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://indiagoneviral.com/news/2020/06/04/summerfest-canceled-for-2020-due-to-covid-19/78765/valariedanis4/
published: true
post_date: 2020-06-04 23:49:25
---
<p>
					Summerfest has been canceled for 2020. This comes as the festival was previously rescheduled to September.In a statement sent to 12 News, President & CEO Don Smiley said: "After careful, diligent, and thoughtful consideration and out of an abundance of caution for the health and safety of our community - including artists, fans, vendors, participants and staff – Summerfest presented by American Family Insurance will not take place in September 2020, as previously announced. It is our honor to be responsible for such a storied tradition.  With five decades of festivals, countless legendary performances and millions of memories, Milwaukee World Festival, Inc. explored numerous options to ensure the Summerfest tradition could continue in 2020, in a safe and healthy manner.  Yet, given the information available today, and the uncertainty surrounding very large gatherings, we cannot in good conscience proceed with the festival this year.  The immediate future presents multiple levels of risk for our fans, and we choose the side of safety.This announcement comes after our staff, sponsors and vendors have worked tirelessly over the past two months to reformulate the festival for the rescheduled 2020 dates.  Our commitment to doing everything possible to preserve the social and economic impact of $186 million, which Summerfest generates annually is paramount, yet the uncertainties are too great. Our present situation is especially disheartening, given that the new $53 million American Family Insurance Amphitheater was scheduled to open on June 24, ready to host over 20 superstars during and after Summerfest.  We are grateful to American Family Insurance and all the donors who made this new venue possible, and look forward to welcoming artists and fans in 2021.Refunds on Summerfest admission tickets purchased via Summerfest.com or Ticketmaster are available. Information regarding how to get a refund on festival admission tickets, as well as information regarding concert tickets for the American Family Insurance Amphitheater or the BMO Harris Pavilion can be found at Summerfest.com.As we all face a challenging and unusual summer and fall ahead, we sincerely appreciate all the support demonstrated by our fans and sponsors and encourage you to support your favorite musicians in the months to come.  We hope you will carry the spirit of Summerfest with you until we can be together again. May the magic of music fill your life with joy and memories." Summerfest said this was the first time the festival has been canceled in 53 years. "We’re really disappointed. We’re disheartened. We contribute $186 million to our local economy so it’s another hit for Milwaukee. We hire 2,000 people. We have 40 food vendors here, so it’s difficult all the way around for everyone but at the end of the day it was the right decision from a public health perspective and that’s just the way it’s going to be and we’re going to look forward to 2021," President and Chief Executive Officer of Summerfest Don Smiley said.They added that the dates of Summerfest 2021 will be announced in the coming weeks.
				</p><div>
					<p><strong>MILWAUKEE —</strong></p><p>Summerfest has been canceled for 2020. </p><p>This comes as the festival was previously rescheduled to September.</p>
<p>In a statement sent to 12 News, President & CEO Don Smiley said: <em>"After careful, diligent, and thoughtful consideration and out of an abundance of caution for the health and safety of our community - including artists, fans, vendors, participants and staff – Summerfest presented by American Family Insurance will not take place in September 2020, as previously announced. </em></p><p><em>It is our honor to be responsible for such a storied tradition.  With five decades of festivals, countless legendary performances and millions of memories, Milwaukee World Festival, Inc. explored numerous options to ensure the Summerfest tradition could continue in 2020, in a safe and healthy manner.  </em></p><p><em>Yet, given the information available today, and the uncertainty surrounding very large gatherings, we cannot in good conscience proceed with the festival this year.  The immediate future presents multiple levels of risk for our fans, and we choose the side of safety.</em></p><p><em>This announcement comes after our staff, sponsors and vendors have worked tirelessly over the past two months to reformulate the festival for the rescheduled 2020 dates.  Our commitment to doing everything possible to preserve the social and economic impact of $186 million, which Summerfest generates annually is paramount, yet the uncertainties are too great. </em></p><p><em>Our present situation is especially disheartening, given that the new $53 million American Family Insurance Amphitheater was scheduled to open on June 24, ready to host over 20 superstars during and after Summerfest.  We are grateful to American Family Insurance and all the donors who made this new venue possible, and look forward to welcoming artists and fans in 2021.</em></p><p><em>Refunds on Summerfest admission tickets purchased via Summerfest.com or Ticketmaster are available. Information regarding how to get a refund on festival admission tickets, as well as information regarding concert tickets for the American Family Insurance Amphitheater or the BMO Harris Pavilion can be found at <a href="https://urldefense.com/v3/__https:/u7061146.ct.sendgrid.net/ls/click?upn=4tNED-2FM8iDZJQyQ53jATUSRGAbSTIc3DZ2bODxQCzFVSd-2BYWP4iXJ3JaDocnLfiLZimHRCPJNdn6vybHHQ3wa3cIPveeKqVYt743LvFQu0M-3DW53O_ADreM0ev4c8P-2ByDo-2BzUobxG-2Bnr89p6HoVMeUmP9zmHOkwVDzPCSdCDcnh4SMB7Rlh2t11ZwnJZxXwMOLixKQ-2BgxXYBHUkgPQAOBHP1mz7MX4SUTEsAcP0NTvD3gCpsEw9ESSl36ueFd7mjhYb-2FyGU-2FJMvVBVRMUz3XFMNa8Np-2Ba-2FTKragP0fmnOX0HWolmzg3RgeZQpktdN5SBW6lkhkjVryJRB99l-2F-2BS-2FM831gs5AKCDvDhqEs17fxaL8kTjY7Z-2Fgm0ZsESsYT7mzMnPX9rrf2AayTKHLtWS1Rfpd9AFIv8J2YDGOVngObyitxzSIGs1SxpwVVQiNlVpHDpN-2F4iIDLX0-2FaIEzgdRXawCbGMmEE-3D__;!!Ivohdkk!zd2FD2RD_LyHWt_nTxlJehGpG53bB9m6S25_fdSqTy1-GrHDgA0Hh1KUyqZkPUg$" rel="nofollow">Summerfest.com</a>.</em></p><p><em>As we all face a challenging and unusual summer and fall ahead, we sincerely appreciate all the support demonstrated by our fans and sponsors and encourage you to support your favorite musicians in the months to come.  We hope you will carry the spirit of Summerfest with you until we can be together again. May the magic of music fill your life with joy and memories." </em></p><p>Summerfest said this was the first time the festival has been canceled in 53 years. </p><p>"We’re really disappointed. We’re disheartened. We contribute $186 million to our local economy so it’s another hit for Milwaukee. We hire 2,000 people. We have 40 food vendors here, so it’s difficult all the way around for everyone but at the end of the day it was the right decision from a public health perspective and that’s just the way it’s going to be and we’re going to look forward to 2021," President and Chief Executive Officer of Summerfest Don Smiley said.</p><p>They added that the dates of Summerfest 2021 will be announced in the coming weeks.</p>

					
					
									</div><br/><a href="https://www.wisn.com/article/summerfest-canceled-for-2020-due-to-covid-19/32767202" class="button purchase" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Read More</a>