---
ID: 78680
post_title: 'UK leads fall in global trust in government COVID responses: poll'
author: 'IGV- News Desk Team'
post_excerpt: 'LONDON (Reuters) - People across almost all the world’s leading rich economies have turned more sceptical about their governments’ handling of the coronavirus pandemic with confidence slumping the most in Britain, a survey showed on Thursday. In May, in the Group of Seven nations as a whole, 48% of respondents approved of how authorities had&hellip;'
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://indiagoneviral.com/news/2020/06/04/uk-leads-fall-in-global-trust-in-government-covid-responses-poll/78680/india-gone-viral/
published: true
post_date: 2020-06-04 21:43:40
---
<div><div><div><p>LONDON (Reuters) - People across almost all the world’s leading rich economies have turned more sceptical about their governments’ handling of the coronavirus pandemic with confidence slumping the most in Britain, a survey showed on Thursday. </p><p>In May, in the Group of Seven nations as a whole, 48% of respondents approved of how authorities had handled the pandemic, down from 50% in April and 54% in March, the survey published by polling firm Kantar showed. </p><p>Britain saw the biggest drop - a sharp fall of 18 points from April to 51% - while in the United States, Canada, Germany, France and Italy, the declines ranged between two and six points. Japan was the only country to show an increase.  </p><p>Britain’s COVID-19 death toll has surpassed 50,000, according to a Reuters tally, making the country one of the worst hit in the world by the pandemic. </p><p>Prime Minister Boris Johnson has also struggled to contain the fallout from a decision by his top advisor Dominic Cummings to undertake a long road trip to get family help at the height of the coronavirus lockdown when COVID-19 hit his household. </p><p>Kantar said 50% of respondents across the G7 said they trusted their government to make the right decisions about the pandemic in the future, down four points from April.  </p><p>Just over half said they would use a contact-tracing app to help to prevent a new wave of infections. Almost two-thirds of those who said they would not use it cited privacy concerns. </p><p>One in three people felt uncomfortable about returning to their workplace, a similar number said they would work at home more than before the crisis and about four in 10 said they would visit restaurants, cafes, pubs and cinemas less than before. </p><p>The survey of 7,012 people was conducted between May 28 and June 1. </p><div><p>Writing by William Schomberg; editing by Stephen Addison</p></div></div></div></div><br/><a href="https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-poll-idUSKBN23B0H4" class="button purchase" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Read More</a>