---
ID: 78681
post_title: 'Antibiotic resistance breakthrough as experts make &#8216;poison arrow&#8217; compound'
author: 'IGV- News Desk Team'
post_excerpt: "Scientists have made a breakthrough in the fight against superbugs after developing a antibiotic that can kill bacteria before it develops resistance.Researchers at Princeton University in the US tested a compound, called SCH-79797, against 25 of the most dangerous antibiotic resistant bugs.It included a 'super strain' of gonorrhoea that is considered one of the top&hellip;"
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://indiagoneviral.com/news/2020/06/04/antibiotic-resistance-breakthrough-as-experts-make-poison-arrow-compound/78681/india-gone-viral/
published: true
post_date: 2020-06-04 21:43:39
---
<div itemprop="articleBody"><p>Scientists have made a breakthrough in the fight against superbugs after developing a antibiotic that can kill bacteria before it develops resistance.</p><p>Researchers at Princeton University in the US tested a compound, called SCH-79797, against 25 of the most dangerous antibiotic resistant bugs.</p><p>It included a 'super strain' of gonorrhoea that is considered one of the top five urgent threats to public health because it shrugs off every known antibiotic.</p><p>The compound successfully killed all  the superbugs by piercing the outer armour of the bacteria to break the DNA of the bacteria to stop it in its tracks.</p><p>Scientists say the 'exciting work' may revolutionise the hunt for a new antibiotic, and say the new compound works like a 'poison arrow'. </p><p>There have been no new classes of antibiotics to treat gram-negative bacteria - the toughest kind - in 30 years, because the medicine has to be strong enough to kill the bacteria without being toxic to humans.</p><p>Antibiotic resistance occurs naturally. But the process has been accelerated by doctors unnecessarily doling it out for decades. </p><p>Once harmless bacteria have now become superbugs which kill <span>an estimated 700,000 people every year worldwide.</span></p><div>  <p>Scientists have made a breakthrough in the fight against superbugs after developing a antibiotic that can kill bacteria before it develops resistance. The compound, called SCH-79797, successfully killed all the superbugs by piercing the outer armour of the bacteria to break the DNA of the bacteria to stop it in its tracks</p></div><p>Bacterial infections  are caused by two types of bacteria - Gram-positive, which includes resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and Enterococcus faecali, and Gram-negative, which includes Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Acinetobacter baumannii. </p><p>The key difference is that Gram-negative bacteria are armoured with an outer layer that shrugs off most antibiotics - which is a huge concern.</p><p>Only six new classes of antibiotics have been approved in the past 20 years, none of which are active against Gram-negative bacteria.</p><p>A team of Princeton researchers reported in the journal <a href="https://www.cell.com/" rel="nofollow noreferrer noopener" target="_blank">Cell t</a>hat they have found a compound that could offer a solution.  </p><p>'This is the first antibiotic that can target Gram-positives and Gram-negatives without resistance,' said Zemer Gitai, professor of biology and senior author on the paper.</p><p>'From a "Why it's useful" perspective, that's the crux.'  </p><mol-permabox id="mol-16dfe810-a63d-11ea-8625-1b46c78b2fcf"><div data-permabox-url="/health/fb-5382265/WHAT-ANTIBIOTIC-RESISTANCE.html" data-version="2" id="mol-e946b840-100f-11e8-8440-918b478002d6"><h3>WHAT IS ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE?</h3><div><p>Antibiotics have been doled out unnecessarily by GPs and hospital staff for decades, fueling once harmless bacteria to become superbugs. </p><p>The World Health Organization (WHO) has previously warned if nothing is done the world is heading for a 'post-antibiotic' era.</p><p>It claimed common infections, such as chlamydia, will become killers without immediate solutions to the growing crisis.</p><p>Bacteria can become drug resistant when people take incorrect doses of antibiotics or if they are given out unnecessarily. </p><p>Former chief medical officer Dame Sally Davies claimed in 2016 that the threat of antibiotic resistance is as severe as terrorism.</p><p>Figures estimate that superbugs will kill 10 million people each year by 2050, with patients succumbing to once harmless bugs.</p><p>Around 700,000 people already die yearly due to drug-resistant infections including tuberculosis (TB), HIV and malaria across the world. </p><p>Concerns have repeatedly been raised that medicine will be taken back to the 'dark ages' if antibiotics are rendered ineffective in the coming years.</p><p>In addition to existing drugs becoming less effective, there have only been one or two new antibiotics developed in the last 30 years.</p><p>In September, the WHO warned antibiotics are 'running out' as a report found a 'serious lack' of new drugs in the development pipeline.</p><p>Without antibiotics, C-sections, cancer treatments and hip replacements will become incredibly 'risky', it was said at the time.</p> </div></div></mol-permabox><p>KC Huang, a professor of bioengineering and of microbiology and immunology at Stanford University, who was not involved in this research, said it could revolutionise antibiotic development.</p><p>He said: 'The thing that can't be overstated is that antibiotic research has stalled over a period of many decades. </p><p>'It's rare to find a scientific field which is so well studied and yet so in need of a jolt of new energy.</p><p>'This compound is already so useful by itself, but also, people can start designing new compounds that are inspired by this. That's what has made this work so exciting.</p><p>'From a societal point of view, it's fantastic to have new hope for the future.'</p><p>Dr James Martin led the latest research into SCH-79797, called SCH for short, having spent most of his career working on the compound.</p><p>For 25 days Dr Martin exposed drug resistant bacteria to the compound in the laboratory over and over again, to prove it was in fact killing it.</p><p>The team tried it against bacterial species including Neisseria gonorrhoeae, which is on the top five list of urgent threats published by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention.<span> </span></p><p><span>Gonnorrhoea is an STI - the third most common in Britain - typically treated with </span>ceftriaxone and azithromycin.</p><p>A report from Public Health England in January 2019 revealed resistance to these three drugs continues to grow, limiting the options available to treat the disease. <span>  </span></p><p>The researchers got a sample of the most resistant strain of N. gonorrhoeae from the vaults of the World Health Organization - a strain that is resistant to every known antibiotic.</p><p>'Our guy still killed this strain,' Professor Gitai said. 'We're pretty excited about that.</p><p>'But what we're most excited about as scientists is something we've discovered about how this antibiotic works.'</p><p>Typical antibiotics research involves finding a molecule that can kill bacteria and breeding multiple generations. The bacteria evolves resistance to it, and scientists use this to re-engineer the molecule to fine-tune it. </p><p>This wasn't needed for SCH because it already worked in the first place.</p><p>Professor Gitai explained that they re-named the compound 'Irresistin', after the word irresistible.  </p><p>The scientists have spent years trying to work out exactly how the compound works, having seen its potent effects in the lab.</p><p>It works with two different mechanisms. It simultaneously punctures the outer layer of the bacteria and then kills the DNA inside.</p><p>SCH shreds folate, a fundamental building block of RNA and DNA that is vital to both bacteria and mammals.</p><div>  <p>SCH worked against a 'super strain' of gonorrhoea called Neisseria gonorrhoeae (pictured)</p></div><p>'There's a whole class of targets that people have largely neglected because they thought, "Oh, I can't target that, because then I would just kill the human as well"', Professor Gitai said.</p><div data-permabox-url="https://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-8387127/Antibiotic-resistance-breakthrough-experts-make-poison-arrow-compound.html" data-version="2" id="mol-a90c36e0-a63c-11ea-8ac7-c916f1f9e9d0"> <h3>WHAT IS SUPER GONORRHOEA? </h3> <div> <p>When gonorrhoea is resistant to one of two antibiotics recommended to treat it, it is known as super gonorrhoea. </p><p>All types of gonorrhoea – historically called ‘the clap’ - are caused by the bacteria Neisseria gonorrhoeae.</p><p>It is quick to develop and strains mutate every few years to become resistant to drugs.</p><p>Doctors have frequently changed their recommended treatments to keep up with the changing nature of the bug. It stopped responding to penicillin in the 1980s.</p><p>Symptoms of gonorrhoea include discharge, bleeding or pain when urinating.</p><p>But around one in two women and one in 10 men will not experience any signs, which is why the infection is so easily spread.</p><p>Women who do not get treatment can develop pelvic inflammatory disease – an infection of the womb and ovaries which can cause infertility.</p><p>In pregnancy, it can cause miscarriage, premature birth or lead to babies developing problems with their vision.</p><p>Patients with super gonorrhoea can be given some other treatments which might work but can have unpleasant side effects.</p><p>Health experts warn it is only a matter of time before the bug mutates to resist these remaining antibiotics too. They recommend using condoms and regular testing to prevent spread of the disease.</p> </div> </div><p>The researchers did find their original SCH compounds killed human cells and bacterial cells at roughly similar levels.</p><p>It wouldn't be able to be used in a medicine because it runs the risk of killing the patient before it killed the infection.</p><p>However, a derivative called Irresistin-16 fixed that. It is nearly 1,000 times more potent against bacteria than human cells, making it a promising antibiotic.</p><p>As a final confirmation, the researchers demonstrated that they could use Irresistin-16 to cure mice infected with N. gonorrhoeae.</p><p>Professor Gitai said: 'Gonorrhoea poses a huge problem with respect to multidrug resistance. We've run out of drugs for gonorrhoea.</p><p>'The standard strains that are circulating on college campuses are super drug resistant.</p><p>‘What used to be the last line of defence, the break-glass-in-case-of-emergency drug for Neisseria, is now the front-line standard of care, and there really is no break-glass backup anymore. That's why this one is a particularly important and exciting one that we could cure.'</p><p>The researchers hope their findings will lead to new antibiotics that can fight against a global health crisis, in which no new medicines have been discovered in decades and antibiotic resistant drugs have risen in prevalence.</p><p>The World Health Organization describe antibiotic resistance as one of the biggest threats to global health.</p><p>Specialists estimate around 70 per cent of bacteria that can cause infection are already resistant to at least one antibiotic that is commonly used to treat them. </p><p>Bacteria are more likely they to become ineffective for treating more serious conditions if antibiotics are used incorrectly or too much. </p><p>The overuse of antibiotics in recent years means they're becoming less effective and has led to the emergence of 'superbugs'. </p><p>The European Center for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) estimates 30,000 people in Europe die from superbugs every year.</p><p>Figures estimate that, by 2050, 10million people globally will die per year because of infections which have evolved to be untreatable.</p></div><br/><a href="https://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-8387127/Antibiotic-resistance-breakthrough-experts-make-poison-arrow-compound.html" class="button purchase" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Read More</a>