---
ID: 78762
post_title: 'Lea Michele&#8217;s former understudy claims she &#8216;threatened to have people fired&#8217; when she was just 12'
author: nsrshana47571
post_excerpt: "Samantha WareGlee actress Samantha re-ignited rumors of Lea Michele's alleged bad behavior on-set, when she responded to Michele's post regarding the death of George Floyd earlier this week. Ware, 33, said: 'Remember when you made my first television gig a living hell?!?!... 'Cause I'll never forget... I believe you told everyone that if you had the&hellip;"
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://indiagoneviral.com/news/2020/06/04/lea-micheles-former-understudy-claims-she-threatened-to-have-people-fired-when-she-was-just-12/78762/nsrshana47571/
published: true
post_date: 2020-06-04 23:49:28
---
<div><p><span>Samantha Ware</span></p><p>Glee actress Samantha re-ignited rumors of Lea Michele's alleged bad behavior on-set, when she responded to Michele's post regarding the death of George Floyd earlier this week. Ware, 33, said: 'Remember when you made my first television gig a living hell?!?!... 'Cause I'll never forget... I believe you told everyone that if you had the opportunity you would 's*** in my wig!' amongst other traumatic microaggressions that made me question a career in Hollywood.' </p><div>  <p>Kicking off: Samantha Ware made claims about Lea Michele earlier this week. </p></div><p><span>Alex Newell</span></p><p>Alex - who starred as Unique Adams on series for four seasons - promptly aired his feelings on Twitter. 'We ain't got not a damn thing to lie about 6 years later!' he replied to one fan who suggested they were making false accusations about Michele's behavior.</p><p><span>Dabier Snell</span></p><p>Actor Dabier Snell, who appeared in one episode of Glee, claimed he wasn't allowed to sit with Michele on set, saying: 'GIRL YOU WOULDNT LET ME SIT AT THE TABLE WITH THE OTHER CAST MEMBERS CAUSE 'I DIDNT BELONG THERE' F--K YOU LEA.'<span> <span></span></span></p><div>  <p>Bad memories: Lea on Glee with Chris Colfer and Heather Morris</p></div><p><span class=""><span>Heather Morris</span></span></p><p><span class="">Morris, 33, who played cheerleader Brittany S. Pierce on the Ryan Murphy show, claims Michele was 'very' unpleasant to work with, saying: ''Was she unpleasant to work with? Very much so; for Lea to treat others with the disrespect that she did for as long as she did, I believe she SHOULD be called out.'</span></p><p><span class=""><span>Melissa Benoist</span></span></p><p><span class="">Supergirl star Melissa Benoist, who appeared on Glee with Lea Michele, liked a series of posts describing star's bullying and abusive behavior toward castmates. Benoist appeared on Glee's fourth season playing a character named Marley Rose. She sang a duet with Michele on the series. She also pressed the heart button on tweets from Glee's Alex Newell and Amber Riley that essentially endorsed the spirit of Ware's sentiments</span></p><p><span class=""><span>Amber Riley</span></span></p><p><span class="">Riley, who played Mercedes Jones in the through all six seasons, shared two GIFs of herself following the allegations, one raising her hand, while the other sipping tea. The response caused a stir among fans who saw it as a subtle way of the actress chiming in. Later, she made clear she wasn't focused on the controversy amid the turbulent times of social unrest in the wake of George Floyd's killing, and would only speak on the topic once while appearing on Instagram Live. She said, 'I don't give a s*** about this Lea Michele thing - I really don't give a f*** ... people are out here dying and being murdered by police. I don't give a s*** about this Lea Michele thing - I wish her well, I hope she has an amazing pregnancy, I hope that she has grown.'</span></p><p><span>RHONY's Aviva Drescher</span></p><p>Even Real Housewives of New York star Aviva Drescher had a story to tell, commenting: 'You were once very unkind to me so I am not surprised by your behavior. You shouldn't judge others before looking in the mirror.' Michele made disparaging remarks about Drescher during an episode of Andy Cohen's Watch What Happens Live. </p><div>  <p>Awkward: Lea slated Aviva on a 2014 appearance on Watch What Happens Live!</p></div><p><span class=""><span>Abigail Breslin</span></span></p><p><span class="">Scream Queens actress Breslin, 24, was another former co-star who was caught 'liking' a smattering of tweets about the controversy. Including one that read: “not everyone agreeing that something felt off about Lea Michele… where have y’all been i’ve BEEN saying this FOR YEARS??? i thought i was alone.'</span></p><p><span class=""><span>Yvette Nicole Brown</span></span></p><p>Actress Yvette Nicole Brown also gave her support to Ware. 'I felt every one of those capital letters,' the Community actress tweeted 'EVERY person on a set matters. EVERY person on a set deserves respect. And it is the RESPONSIBILITY of every series regular to make EVERY person who visits their home feel welcome. This dismissive attitude is what’s wrong in Hollywood AND the world.'</p><p><span>Marcel Spears </span></p><p><span class="">The Mayor actor reacted to an array of replies to Ware's initial tweet, including one directly asking Yvette Nicole Brown: 'I assume u feel the same since u worked with her?'</span></p><div>  <p>Under fire: Lea Michele in </p></div><p><span>Gerard Canonico</span></p><p>Broadway actor Gerard Canonico, 30, was an understudy in the original Broadway cast of Spring Awakening starring Michele and her BFF Jonathan Groff. 'You were nothing but a nightmare to me and fellow understudy cast members. You made us feel like we didn’t belong there,' Canonico wrote in a comment on her Instagram apology, which he had re-posted after claiming it had initially been deleted.</p><p><span>Plastic Martyr</span></p><p>Singer and reality star Plastic Martyr - who appeared in Little Women: LA - shared her experience with Michele, alleging on Instagram: 'She's a very unpleasant person.' The trans singer claimed Michele once scolded her for using the women's bathroom at the Emmy's, while she was still in the process of her transition. 'I remember going from feeling so beautiful that day to walking out of the that bathroom feeling so self conscious and embarrassed.'</p><p><span>Elizabeth Aldrich</span></p><p>Actress Elizabeth Aldrich - who was Michele's understudy in Ragtime - claimed on Twitter: 'She was absolutely awful to me and ensemble. She demeaned the crew and threatened to have people fired if she was in anyway displeased. I used to cry every night from the mean and manipulative things she would do. She was 12. She was terrifying.'  </p><p><span>Iqbal Theba</span> </p><p>Glee co-star Iqbal Theba said he was not mistreated by the star and took to Twitter to write: 'Lot of people r assuming that @LeaMichele mistreated me. Let me state it clearly that I was never mistreated by her. And if some of the cast were treated badly then she has apologized for it which is wonderful. But being called a racist is too heavy & unfair a burden 4 most of us, specially in these troubled times.'</p><p><span>Dean Geyer</span></p><p>Dean Geyer - who played Brody Weston, the boyfriend of Michele's character Rachel Berry, for 14 episodes - had nothing but nice things to say about her. 'Lea is still one of my favourite co-stars that I have had the pleasure of working with. She is extremely hard working and super fun to be around,' he said.</p></div><br/><a href="https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-8388563/Lea-Micheles-former-understudy-says-terrifying-work-just-12-YEARS-OLD.html" class="button purchase" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Read More</a>